It's like you're not a, you know, stop being a librarian at 5 o'clock.
But no, I had planned to go to library school.
I'm in a kindergarten teacher.
It's the only profession I know of where people are happy when you borrow something, you know, when you take something.
I mean, your day is made when you find something to give to a person.
I mean, I don't know if the other profession is.
The only thing is, it's professionally, I'm mortified when I have a book out beyond a few days.
I feel like I have to go and explain it, and then people say, just, you don't have to pay the fine, I'll just mark it in and say, no, no, I'm not trying to say it, I'm just trying to explain why I had this book longer than I was supposed to have it, because it just seems like part of the obligation.
No, I always have been interested in history, but I really, I've been a, because Massachusetts doesn't have kindergarten part of its school system, you know, it's a voluntary and additional,
So I worked in a daycare center, just after I'd been in the Army and done a bunch of other things.
And I worked in a daycare center, and I loved it.
Anyway, I was in a paraprofessional position.
I'd only taken a couple of courses, college courses at a community college out in the Berkshires.
And I thought, I really love doing this.
But even when I was young, it's so emotionally draining.
This isn't a daycare center for children with all sorts of problems, physical and
But it's also physically exhausting.
It's hard, hard work.
At first I thought it was funny.
Everybody took care of those maps in the daytime.
After a while I started looking forward, lying down after lunch for a few minutes.
And then I thought, what can I do where this pleasure would be in it, but you could do this overextended period of time.
And by that time, I thought, whatever you want to do, you have to go to college to do it.
So I started going to school in New York.
And Columbia had, at that time, a library school, a very small one.
But it was really only really well known for two things.
It was for training children's librarians and for the special program they had for rare book librarians.
And somehow, actually, the thing that had never occurred to me is, it may still be the case, but it certainly was back in the 70s,
children's librarianship is extraordinarily ideological.
It's this idea, there are good books and there are bad books, and you better be on the side of the good books.
And, you know, I thought the big problem of librarianship was censorship from the outside, but it seemed to me within this field, 90% of censorship was within.
And for good, right-minded purposes, you know, to kind of
improve people's lives and better their, but it just seemed not what I was, you know, it's not what I associate with being a librarian about.
It's sort of like, you know, they're kids, but nevertheless choice and not trying to sort of judge everything.
And so I got, I thought I couldn't deal with that, and then we had this special program.
And Terry Bellinger was merely kicking everybody out.
This is the first eccentric guy who ran this program.
He was just pitching people over to the side, one after the other.
And then he invited me, and it was so flattering where someone is sort of massacring the students.
He's making these impossible assignments to convince everybody to quit.
Just make up stuff that people couldn't do, because it was like...
You know, it was like a boot camp.
You know, it was going to be the people who got through were going to be tough.
And then he said, why don't you come and join this?
And for whatever reasons that are known only to him.
And it was.
It was extremely flattering under the circumstances.
So I ended up in this bizarre program to change.
Terry Bellinger, I've had four books published.
And the first three, the books would come out.
Did I tell you this?
No.
And I'd get the letter from Terry.
You know, you've got this wrong on this page.
So finally I said to him, for Christ's sake, I mean, why nitpick me now?
How about reading the next one in TypeScript?
Oh, sure.
He read Splendor of Letters, and I mean, he found so much stuff.
The book is basically flawless right now.
I found a couple of little things that
are so insignificant, maybe half a dozen things have fixed, but I really credit it to them.
Reading that he gave the book and challenges you on things, it was unbelievable.
He's basically a really nice guy, but he's so eccentric and so kind of non-socialized that it would never occur to him that saying,
You've got that wrong.
Anybody would take any personal, be personally hurt or insulted or anything other than an objective sort of like, it's like, you know, it's a mathematics problem.
But, and also something, the only trick I learned from him, because we're both incredibly nearsighted, is if you're incredibly nearsighted, you can study things like type without...
any magnifier or something.
So if I had a nickel for every time I've seen him look like this to the book, which looks really bizarre.
But if you're studying type design and stuff, it's this extraordinary gift.
It's a gift.
And he knows every trick and every tool.
He's the guy that, they don't do this much anymore, but he's taught me every kind of book-back trick that he's learned, you know, the wet string in your mouth.
Yes.
You have a piece of wet string, and you put it in along the margin of page and close the book, and the wet string will sort of soften the page, especially for illustrated books, and then you can pull the whip-piece without any ripping noise.
And I thought, where the hell did you find out that?
Also, he had his own demonstration printing press.
In fact, I rebuilt the printing press for him.
You know, he's very, he knows lots of stuff, but he's not mechanically very adept.
Um, uh, but, um, but he used, I mean, he used benzene, which is a good cleaning agent for, because, because, printing it, because, like, paint, practically.
But, I mean, that guy must have been breathing benzene all day long for, like, I mean, he's like, he, I mean, he would have, you know, a factory worker would have not been exposed to more toxic chemicals.
It's lucky he can sort of state a coherent... I know it's why Ove's hair fell out.
But I know, but I swear, it's remarkable that man's still alive.
He was so cussed and he probably can't die.
But he is one of these great characters.
He is.
He is one of the great characters.
And he's also this person that I know if he showed up, no matter what level I ever rise to in this, I feel like, arisen but as far as I'm ever likely...
He just treats you like you're like the first day he ever... I know he'd give me a quiz about how... He'd come in and say, well, this is a modern printed book.
But if we were looking at an old book, I know he had to ask me how the pages were made up and folded to make the pages.
Do you feel a little prickling going up your back all of a sudden like you're being quizzed and you... No, because I think he kind of liked me because... No, because I give it back to him.
I think it's because I was grown up and had done other things in the world.
and didn't need to do this, you know, that he kind of liked it that these people, because everybody else kind of would, bow underneath that.
The only thing I ever regret once is that he, once our class was supposed to meet for a week, our class was maybe like forty hours a week, single class, because he'd have all his printing and stuff.
And I remember we were meeting in the evening, and I was working, living in New York, and I had a lot to do, and I was really mad because
his office was all closed up, and he was there, but it was in the middle of something, you know, and he kind of, it just seemed to me impolite, because he had missed, you know, this, I couldn't, and it was the day he found out he hadn't been granted tenure at Columbia, and I thought, I'm, I'm getting, you know, into a huff because the class is met a half hour late, you know, this guy, at the time, I think he thought his life had been, I mean, he made a,
He was the dean of the school and then moved the program to the University of Virginia.
Oh, a new university professor.
Yeah, that's right.
They really landed on his feet.
The school wrecked his career, then the school was closed down, and he was the only person standing.
And he had put together all of these artifacts, what he called the Book Arts Press, and just uprooted and brought the whole thing.
Yeah, but it's a wonderful program.
But it is that kind of thing where you kind of have to step back and think, you know, what's happening to you personally at any minute is not, you may think it's the most important thing in the world, but not necessarily from the end.
You ever meet that guy from UCLA Special Collections?
He used to be great friends with.
David Zeitberg who went to Huntington.
No, he was at UCLA Special Collections.
He died as a young guy about ten years ago.
God, he's got an amazing thing like Jim Smith, you know, sort of like a, but they were characters, they used to travel around together.
Well, it's a nostalgia for me.
Well, listen, sir, I'm in violation of my meter.
Oh, no, that's sort of like, let me, I just put Rosa...